# Research-Paper-MCCS23038
The field of Mobile Wireless Communication gained momentum after the invention of the first wireless mobile phone “The Motorola DynaTAC 8000X” in 1973. The first phone call was placed on this very phone by Dr Martin Cooper who was a pioneer in the field of wireless communication. This was based on the AMPS standard defined by Bell Labs and Motorola. This was the 1st generation of mobile wireless communication. In the early to mid-1990s 1G was superseded by newer 2G (second generation) cellular technologies such as GSM and cdmaOne. 3G started replacing 2G in the early 2000s. 2G and 3G networks provided data services which was not provided by its predecessor. High Speed data services was introduced by 4G and 4G is now being phased out by its successor 5G. Throughout this evolution of variation generations of wireless communication technologies, there has always been a trade off in terms of data speed, bandwidth, and coverage, cost and power consumption of these generation of communication systems. In the new world 5G brings to us the possibility of wireless world Wireless Wide Web (WWWW) with across the globe coverage and path breaking data transfer speed accompanied by very high quality voice and video calling. The birth of IoT has started a new race between corporations to develop smarter devices and sensors. Fast evolving mobile communication systems and IoT enabled smart devices are being used in creating E-Villages and Smart Villages which is accelerating the development of rural areas
